Cheesy Potato Cheddar Soup: Huge Success!
Published on April 07, 2010.
I had some vegetable broth left over in the fridge because I made some green chile cheese enchiladas (which kind of turned out badly).
I was trying to think of a way to salvage the rest of the broth and I decided to try to make some soup.
Back in Highschool, my friend Kate used to bring potato cheese soup and she’d let me try some.
I really liked it and she even wrote the recipe in the back of my yearbook, but I hadn’t tried to make it until now.
It was way overdue.
I looked online for some recipes.
There were quite a few variations.
I read through a bunch and came up with a plan.
I went to Trader Joe’s and got a few Russet Potatoes (I think a lot of people say to use Yukon Gold), an onion, and a small block of sharp cheddar cheese.
It was like $6 in all or something.
I put the broth (there was about 2 or 3 cups left) into a big pot and started boiling it.
I chopped up the potatoes into cubes and half the onion onto little pieces.
Then I threw them in the pot and let them boil for a while.
The recipes say 20 minutes or so but I think I did less, maybe 15?
Then I separated the potato from the broth, and placed the pieces onto a plate.
I smashed them with a fork.
It was surprisingly easy to smash them.
I mixed them back in with the broth and let it simmer while I grated the cheddar cheese.
I added about .5 lbs (the package said .67 lbs of cheese and I used about 3/4 of it.
Maybe I should’ve used less.
Or maybe more?
Anyway, the cheese melted well with the soup and it turned out really good.
I think maybe there was a bit too much broth, so the soup was a bit soupier than i would’ve liked.
But overall it was a huge success and I’ll now be eating leftover potato cheese soup for a few days.